Hello and welcome back.
A marvelous gotto people in this video we had to look at another option for a storybook.
We're going to look at how to do a Jason File.
Now this is kind of repeating the same effect a different way and I'm really just showing it as a as
a way of showing that there's multiple ways you could solve this problem and as an introduction to how
to open files within gotta so before any further.
Let's define Jason.
I'm going to link you to this page.
This is from the Jason documentation.
It says For javascript object notation is a way of bringing in a bunch of data to various programs and
various operating systems in a very clear way.
But if we just want the basics they work like this javascript object notation is a list of things we
can have.
There are two types of lists right there's an array which has value 1 and value 2 and keeps going.
It value can be a string.
It can be an integer a boolean whatever else we want right.
Our standard variable types is defined by using square brackets.
And it has a comma between each one and we can keep putting as many as we like in there.
All we can have objects which are defined by having a key which is always a string a colon and then
a value which can be any type.
And so the key colon value comma key to common value and solid solids and so on.
And what's really cool about this is this looks very familiar.
Right.
This is how G.D. script handles arrays and dictionaries with one key difference and I'm using the word
key here is an unintentional pun.
Our keys have to be strings for this to work in Jason.
We need to create a Jason File and then we need to figure out how to open the file and as well as opening
it.
We need to get going to read it posits that means understand it and then close the file.
Technically we don't have to close the file we can keep it up in a memory but that's bad practice.
So let's get into got an investment using a right click on on the resource folder and I'm going to open
it in file manager by clicking open and file manager now for this next bit.
We're going to need some sort of edits you can do this in a standard notepad.
It will work just fine a text but realistically we need a third party source.
I'm going to be using atom it's free and open source idea which you could use Visual Studio code you
could use whatever you'd like to use to make these files.
So I'll provide a link to atom but find the one that you like and if I open atom I can save this.
So let's save as and I just need to get to that folder to reopen this folder.
Copy the link the to find it and go here and I'm gonna call this as stories dot GSO In fact I'm gonna
call it story book just to be really clear story book dot GSO.
Awesome.
Now we're back into got it of my script and remember this whole thing that I commented out so I could
show for now I'm going to uncommon at and cut it.
So it's just not in there anymore.
Back into atom and I'm going to paste it in what I don't want is this variable templates let's get rid
of you and what we have here is an array of dictionaries key things I need to make sure that every story
has a comma between them.
Okay so we have a dictionary with prompts and story Okies must be strings.
OK.
So if you don't have any strings this will not work.
So we have to put this some strings by the way.
You'll notice some of my stories have backslash and in them that's how you put a line break in my string
without breaking it.
So right now we have all these stories.
Good to go so I'm going to save this.
Here's my story book Jason saved.
I can close that and get back into it.
You'll notice it doesn't show up in the file manager.
Does that mean it's not that.
Well let's go check.
When I click on it I may open a file manager and I can see story book dot Jason.
So why can I see here and also file manager.
And the reason is daughter can't read Jason files directly I can't edit them which means they won't
show up here which is one of the potential downsides of using a Jason as love advantages.
But this is not one of them.
OK.
So let us scroll down a bit and I won't make a branding function.
I need to find a way of getting a file from Jason's going to a function get from Jason.
OK before I figure out what that is.
Let's make sure we're getting this right.
So I need to comment out all of this.
Instead let's set a new variable for stories.
And this is going to be get from Jason.
Well we might want to use multiple Jason files right so to do that.
I'm going to give it a file name and that's going to be my story book dot GSO and I'm pretty sure that's
written correctly.
But what I could also do is go back into this folder here go to rename this and just copy this whole
names on a copy that I would normally use keyboard shortcuts but when I out and paste it there and here
and it's past an argument and so let's call this file name great so we're going to get the stories we
get from Jason.
You know that could be before randomize and press ult and a power to move it up there.
Okay.
So what I need now I need to set my current story so let's do current story equals and this is going
to be part of the stories array.
So I'm going to need to put an array.
I'm going to get my random integer.
So pick a random object in here.
And what's your maximum size is going to be stories dot size right.
Exactly as we did it before.
OK.
So clearly what we need now is get from Jason.
So the first thing I need to do is I need to use this file command and if I left click and press control
you can see we've got a whole bunch of commands we can use.
But essentially what this does is handles file reading and writing operations.
Great.
So what do I need to do.
Let's create a new variable variable file with a small f and that equals file dot new.
This new function tells it with we've now got a brand new file capital F a file object so I could call
this Jason files I wanted to just make it very clear what's happening but you will often see this in
programming right capitalization is key.
Small F is not the same as a big F.
OK.
So what's that going to do.
Well we need to open this file right since he filed it open and that's gonna take some arguments.
The first is what is our file name.
So it's going to be file name.
And what do we need to do with it.
File dot read by the way if you want to know why I'm magically typing stuff here I'm going to go to
file and scroll down this is almost identical to this load function.
Okay.
So we're open the file.
Tell me what file to do it then read it but we're not doing exactly the same thing that I want to save
game.
I would hope that Jason and get the value from within the Jason.
Okay.
So we need the text from this file so variable text equals file dot and there's a function to use here.
Get as text.
Right.
So it's telling it.
This is a text file.
Don't try and read it like a picture or a sound or anything else just read it as text.
Okay.
So I've read the file.
I've told it.
This is text but now I need to understand it.
I need to pass it.
So let's call data because what I'm getting right I'm getting the data out of this and that's going
to be pass.
Jason what am I passing the text right now I need to close the file so file dot close it will work fine
without it but why have it a memory when I don't need it.
And now finally I need to return and what am I returning I'm returning the data right.
This bit here.
Okay.
This can seem a little magical so let's just go over what we've just done we've looked up the file and
taking a look at some of the key concepts we can do.
Specifically we want to open a file close a file we need to it as Jason.
So I'm just using a lot of this with a few extra special sources coming in and to follow through the
logic of what's happening.
We've declared a variable could file which I've told it is a file object that we're that we're making
you what is it.
It's.
And we're going to open the file name whatever we're passing in which in this case is storybook.
Jason.
And we're reading it.
We're not writing to it.
We're opening it as read only OK.
Now there's something called text which is the contents of the file as text.
So I open it up don't try and read it as a picture or sound effect.
It's just text but we don't just read the text what the meaning from the text right.
We need it to understand what this is.
We need to pass it.
So is a variable called data which is what's in the text passed as Jason.
Finally we're closing the file we don't need it and we're returning the data to here.
So stories is that right.
It's the data passes Jason the current story is all of the stories and the machine a pick within the
array a random size before any further I've actually done this bit wrong here.
This should be r e.
Because this is the area.
That's what I'm looking for this all to complete.
How do I know you're going to file and do a search for read.
Let's find the next one.
Doo doo doo doo doo
here we go.
These are flags right.
So read all in capitals is one way of saying that final a small f isn't the same as follows the big
F.
Well this is not the same as this.
That's what I want.
Okay.
Let's see if this works my press play.
Welcome to looney lips a little story of a wonderful time may I have a name.
Tuttle may I have a thing cuddly toy may I have a feeling hungry I'm a little bit hungry.
Another feeling I have another feeling let's have Flutie some things mice.
Once upon a time at Tuttle eight a cuddly twin felt very hungry.
It was a floaty day for good mice.
Again we have a noun it's a different thing.
Pig.
May I have a name.
Mr. Squiggle an adjective Gray.
Another name
Baron von giggles.
Once upon a time I Paco Mrs. squiggle there was a pickle Mrs. squiggle who searched far and wide for
the mythical Gray noun of Baron von Gilford that noun is wrong.
That's fine.
Welcome.
Look it's gonna get us different each time.
Okay.
Quite a lot to take in here.
So before we any further let's talk about why would you bother with Jason.
In general Jason is a really good format right.
Its operating system agnostic so it'll work really easy to know no matter what device I'm using.
If I can handle modern programming languages and work on Windows at work on Linux at a local MAC et
cetera et cetera et cetera we could also add an extra large.
Those arrays we can have one in English one American English one in French one in Canadian French one
in Japanese cling on whatever else we want and if we put this file in I use a file as opposed to on
our resource file which is something we can look at later in the course we could make this multiple
we can let the player create their own stories but there are some downsides.
One we have to edit the file outside of Jason Gordo can't edit Jason files directly which adds an extra
layer of complexity for exactly the same result.
So really we have to step outside Gordo to get the same result in here so which solution was better
for you.
Personally I'm more inclined to keep things within the engine and unless as a good reason to put them
outside.
But if you want the extra modding and all the rest of it maybe Jason is right.
In this video we've looked at the awesome power of Jason.
It's very flexible and it's very similar to the way we do arrays and dictionaries and G.D. script.
We've looked at how to read files and got up and with finished looney lips.
That's it we're done.
We're almost ready to move on to the next section.
How did it work out.
How's your game looking.
Don't forget to put anything core you found or made on the forums on discord on the Facebook group.
I'd love to see what you guys are making.
Meanwhile great stuff and we'll see you on the next video.